silence in the library was rivers first
appearance in Doctor Who but from her
perspective it was more like her last
appearance in up to naturally we see the
episode through the doctors eyes but
right here right fucking now we're gonna
take a look at it through rivers eyes
you ready let's do it River has been
married to the doctor for years she got
her doctorate at the lunar university
she killed the doctor at Lake Silencio
and once done with her prison sentence
she became a professor the last time she
saw the doctor it was a future one who
passed the events of Lake Silencio he
showed up with a new haircut in a new
suit and took her tutor ileum he cried
and wouldn't tell her why and he gave
her one of his old screwdrivers and the
next time she summoned him he had a new
face when she sat down with him to
compare Diaries she mentioned the crash
of the Byzantium which was among her
later days in prison she then realized
that there was something different about
him that he didn't recognize her now
river had got used to the fact that not
only did they meet in the wrong order at
the time but most of the time it was
just backwards knowing this river was
rightly afraid that one day she'd meet
him and he wouldn't have met her yet
implying this might be the last time she
saw him so that's it she realizes she
might be meeting him for the last time
when she starts chatting with the
doctors companion at the time she
realizes it's Donna Noble and River
knows what happened to Donna Noble when
she starts to hit the fan River realizes
that the doctor is having a hard time
trusting her so in order to gain his
trust she whispers his real name into
his ear we don't know how exactly she
knows his name yet but we know it's
going to be a big deal and it might be
at the fields of trenzalore he can only
tell someone who's name under very
particular conditions and apparently
only someone that he trusts a great deal
so this helps her over gain the young
doctors trust later the doctor overhears
River telling Anita about the eleventh
Doctor River talks about things should
seen in doctors future now my doctor
seen whole armies
run away and he'd just swagger off back
to his TARDIS and open the doors with a
snap of his fingers when the doctor
finally comes up with a plan to save the
day River knows this solution would kill
him if the doctor dies not only will
they never have met but the doctor would
never have met Amy and Rory who would
never have conceived the part-time Lord
baby who would become River Song if the
doctor dies here she would never have
existed so she takes his place and dies
saving the doctors future her own past
and everyone on the planet in a way she
gets to say goodbye to the doctor but
not really not her doctor she'll never
see him again and then she wakes up
inside the library's data core the
doctor saver of his life one last time
by sending her to what is basically
let's face it heaven isn't it where all
the other dead people are wearing white
personally I'd like to think of the
doctor coming back one day to get her
out and open air in like a robot body or
something that'd be nice sort of in the
meantime she's probably hooking up with
every one of those dead hotties and
probably living out the erotica section
of the library they have it good one in
it I love this story from the first time
I saw it there are two ways to view the
story from the doctors perspective it's
one of fear and hope for the future fear
of losing yet another person he's going
to love and hope like as she says he's
still got all the good times to come and
then if you watch it from rivers
perspective it's it's like having a
loved one with Alzheimer's so incredibly
sad it's strange when you go back now
and watch it because the Tenth Doctor he
really does seem young you can literally
look in his eyes and just see that he is
no fucking clue what's in store for him
next normally when watching repeats you
don't feel that strongly I think but
here you actually get to feel that
through river because this river has
seen the Pandorica and Hitler and Lake
Silencio she's on our side of the fence
looking at the Tenth Doctor it's really
a unique television-watching experience
i highly recommend going back and
rewatching it if you haven't done it
recently and i'll see you later